distribution/docs/src/main/resources/content/_reference/_tables/PolicyManager.adoc, before:

:title: Web Context Policy Manager
:id: org.codice.ddf.security.policy.context.impl.PolicyManager
:status: published
:type: table
:application: ${ddf-security}
:summary: Web Context Security Policies.

.[[_org.codice.ddf.security.policy.context.impl.PolicyManager]]Web Context Policy Manager
[cols="1,1m,1,3,1,1" options="header"]
|===

|Name
|Id
|Type
|Description
|Default Value
|Required

|Context Traversal Depth
|traversalDepth
|Integer
|Depth to which paths will be traversed. Any value greater than 500 will be set to 500.
|20
|true

|Authentication Types
|authenticationTypes
|String
|List of authentication types required for each context. List of default valid authentication types are: IDP, SAML, BASIC, PKI, GUEST. Example: /context=AUTH1|AUTH2|AUTH3
|/=IDP|GUEST,/admin=IDP|basic
|true

|Required Attributes
|requiredAttributes
|String
|List of attributes required for each Web Context. Example: /context={role=role1;type=type1}
|/=,/admin={http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/role=system-admin},/system={http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/role=system-admin},/security-config={http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/role=system-admin}
|true

|White Listed Contexts
|whiteListContexts
|String
|List of contexts that will not use security. Note that sub-contexts to ones listed here will also skip security, unless authentication types are provided for it. For example: if /foo is listed here, then /foo/bar will also not require any sort of authentication. However, if /foo is listed and /foo/bar has authentication types provided in the 'Authentication Types' field, then that more specific policy will be used.
|${variable-prefix}org.codice.ddf.system.rootContext}/SecurityTokenService,${variable-prefix}org.codice.ddf.system.rootContext}/internal/metrics,/proxy,${variable-prefix}org.codice.ddf.system.rootContext}/saml,${variable-prefix}org.codice.ddf.system.rootContext}/idp,/idp,${variable-prefix}org.codice.ddf.system.rootContext}/platform/config/ui,/logout
|true

|===

Commit message:

- OIDC added as an Auth type. Supports implicit flow and authorization code flow via OIDC and credential flow via OAuth2. - IDP auth type renamed to SAML. - Old SAML auth type removed and functionality moved to the new SAML auth type (old IDP) and the WebSSOFilter. Added session storage checkbox to the web context policy. - Guest auth type removed and functionality replaced with a new authenticating shiro realm that handles guests. Added guest enabling checkbox to the web context policy. - Added IDP configuration (SAML and OIDC) to the installer. - Disabled guest login through the internal SAML IdP.

distribution/docs/src/main/resources/content/_reference/_tables/PolicyManager.adoc, after:

:title: Web Context Policy Manager
:id: org.codice.ddf.security.policy.context.impl.PolicyManager
:status: published
:type: table
:application: ${ddf-security}
:summary: Web Context Security Policies.

.[[_org.codice.ddf.security.policy.context.impl.PolicyManager]]Web Context Policy Manager
[cols="1,1m,1,3,1,1" options="header"]
|===

|Name
|Id
|Type
|Description
|Default Value
|Required

|Context Traversal Depth
|traversalDepth
|Integer
|Depth to which paths will be traversed. Any value greater than 500 will be set to 500.
|20
|true

|Allow Guest Access
|guestAccess
|Boolean
|Allow guest access to all web contexts. Required attributes can be used to restrict access to contexts from guest users.
|true
|true

|Allow Session Storage
|sessionAccess
|Boolean
|Allow for session cookies to be used.
|true
|true

|Authentication Types
|authenticationTypes
|String
|List of authentication types required for each context. List of default valid authentication types are: BASIC, PKI, SAML, and OIDC. Example: /context=AUTH1|AUTH2|AUTH3
|/=SAML,/admin=SAML|BASIC
|true

|Required Attributes
|requiredAttributes
|String
|List of attributes required for each Web Context. Example: /context={role=role1;type=type1}
|/=,/admin={http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/role=system-admin},/system={http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/role=system-admin},/security-config={http://schemas.xmlsoap.org/ws/2005/05/identity/claims/role=system-admin}
|true

|White Listed Contexts
|whiteListContexts
|String
|List of contexts that will not use security. Note that sub-contexts to ones listed here will also skip security, unless authentication types are provided for it. For example: if /foo is listed here, then /foo/bar will also not require any sort of authentication. However, if /foo is listed and /foo/bar has authentication types provided in the 'Authentication Types' field, then that more specific policy will be used.
|${variable-prefix}org.codice.ddf.system.rootContext}/SecurityTokenService,${variable-prefix}org.codice.ddf.system.rootContext}/internal/metrics,/proxy,${variable-prefix}org.codice.ddf.system.rootContext}/saml,${variable-prefix}org.codice.ddf.system.rootContext}/idp,/idp,${variable-prefix}org.codice.ddf.system.rootContext}/platform/config/ui,/logout
|true

|===
